hi everyone its Luci and today we're
looking more at the TOEFL listening test
and specifically in today's lesson we're
looking at lecture skills 6 main idea
alright so in this lesson first we're
going to describe the task then we're
going to look at the method and finally
it's time for you to do some practice so
what is the purpose of our lesson well
is to understand exactly how to answer
the main idea listening question for a
lecture ok so in this particular task
what exactly is involved well let's find
out in this task you're going to have to
identify the main idea of a lecture ok
what the lecture was mainly about now
when you're given the question the
correct answer should summarize the
whole lecture ok now remember as always
in a listening you're probably going to
get some extra information some details
that are there to try to throw you off
the scent
ok but try your best to listen for
exactly what the main idea of the
lecture is ok what are some things you
can look out for to help you understand
exactly what you're looking for well you
can listen for phrases like today's talk
is on today we're going to discuss today
I'm going to talk to you about at the
beginning of the lecture ok so what is
our method our first step is to listen
to the audio and take notes ok as I've
said many times before remember that
note-taking is a very very very
important skill for the TOEFL test ok
remember when you're taking notes the
idea is to make them short and sweet ok
don't write any full sentences just
write down the main ideas and key words
ok especially for this task all right if
you don't already make sure you have a
pen and paper available because it's
time to listen to the lecture and take
some notes ok are you ready
here is our lecture today's talk is on
how archaeologists are using technology
to answer questions about our past
technology like ground-penetrating radar
or GPR enables archaeologists to look
underground without digging
archeologists have this technology to
identify
potential locations for the burial site
of Genghis Khan it's been more than a
century since the powerful Minoan
civilization of the Mediterranean was
uncovered but scholars are still unable
to decipher their language but now we
have big data in our toolkit which used
with computer analysis will help us
decipher this mysterious language as
global warming causes ice sheets and
glaciers to retreat it will be very very
likely that a well-preserved Neanderthal
will one day emerge much like the 40,000
year old baby mammoth found in Siberia
okay so hopefully you were able to get
some good notes from that lecture and
remembering you're trying to focus on
what the lecture is mainly about let's
take a look at our sample notes from
this lecture all right we have things
like archaeology and technology GPR
underground burial sites Minoan language
and global warming
okay what is our next step well our next
step is to look at the question okay so
here is our question and remember in the
TOEFL test you have to listen before
you're able to look at the question and
that's why note-taking is so important
your only resource to answering the
question is your notes so here is our
question so it says what is the lecture
mainly about is it a a comparison of
different archaeological sites B the use
of GPR to check the tomb of Genghis Khan
C the use of technology in modern
archaeology or D the evolution of human
history okay our next step is to compare
your notes to this question and
eliminate any answers that are obviously
wrong okay so let's take a look at our
question and our notes again to see if
we can find any questions that we could
definitely eliminate so take a moment
look at the question look at these
answer choices and see if any of them
are obviously wrong
okay now our next step is to choose the
answer all right now before I give you
the answer make sure you have an answer
of your own ready if you don't go back
pause have a think and remember to
eliminate any answers that are obviously
incorrect okay so what do we think and
our answer is C the use of technology in
modern archaeology alright so how did
you go with that one
all right are you ready to do some
practice on your own as I said if you
don't already get a pen and paper ready
because our first step is going to be to
listen to a practice lecture and take
some notes okay are you ready remember
to listen and take notes to this lecture
here we go good morning everyone
today's art-history talk is on
Renaissance artist Michelangelo
Michelangelo was a Florentine sculptor
painter architect and poet of the high
Renaissance who exerted an unparalleled
influence on the development of Western
art considered to be the greatest living
artists during his lifetime he has since
been described as one of the greatest
artists of all time despite making few
forays beyond the arts his versatility
in the disciplines
he took up was of such high order that
he is often considered a contender for
the title of the archetypal Renaissance
man along with his rival and fellow
Florentine Medici client Leonardo da
Vinci a number of Michelangelo's works
of painting sculpture and architecture
ranked among the most famous in
existence his output in every field of
interest was prodigious given the sheer
volume of surviving correspondence
sketches and reminiscences taken into
account
he is the best documented artist of the
16th century
ok so now it's time to look at the
question and to use your notes to try to
answer the question remember to use your
notes to first try to eliminate any
answers that are obviously incorrect ok
so here is our question
okay do you think you have an answer
ready if you don't yet go back pause
take a moment to see if you can choose
the correct answer all right are you
ready here we go and the answer is D
Michelangelo's paintings and sculptures
all right thank you so much for watching
I hope that wasn't too painful and I
hope you were able to get the right
answer remember if you have any
questions or any needs at all please
check out our website at eetu language
comm thanks again for watching and I
hope to see you next time
bye